---
bibliography: [references.bib]
---

# Introduction

Finding a species in a certain location is like finding an encrypted message
that traveled through time. It carries the species’ evolutionary history,
migration patterns, as well as any direct and indirect effects generated by
other species (some of which we may not even know exist). Ecologists have been
trying to decode this message with progressively more powerful tools, from their
field notes to highly complex computational algorithms. However, to succeed
in this challenge it is important to have the right clues in hand. There are
many ways we can be misled by data - or the lack of it: taxonomic errors (e.g.,
due to updates in the taxonomy of a species), geographic inaccuracy (e.g.,
approximate coordinates or lack of documentation about their accuracy), or
sampling biases (e.g. data clustered near roads or research centers)
[@Ladle2013MapSpe; @Hortal2015SevSho; @Poisot2021GloKno]. One way to identify -
and potentially fix - these errors is
to combine many different pieces of information about the occurrence of a
species, so agreements and mismatches can emerge. Although previous studies have
combined different types of occurrence data to measure the accuracy of datasets
[@Hurlbert2007SpeRic; @Hurlbert2005DisRan; @Ficetola2014EvaRob], none have used
different types of information so far (i.e., ecological characteristics other
than geographical distribution). Here we suggest jointly analysing species
occurrence (range maps and point occurrences) and ecological interactions to
identify mismatches between datasets and areas of uncertainty.  

Interactions form complex networks that shape ecological structures and maintain
the essential functions of ecosystems, such as seed dispersal, pollination, and
biological control [@Albrecht2018PlaAni; @Fricke2022EffDef] that ultimately
affect the composition, richness, and successional patterns of communities
across biomes. Yet, the connection between occurrence and interaction data is a
frequent debate in ecology [@Blanchet2020CooNot; @Wisz2013RolBio]. For instance,
macroecological models are often used with point or range occurrence data in
order to investigate the dynamics of a species with its environment. However,
these models do not account for ecological interactions, although it has been demonstrated that they might largely
affect species distribution [@Abrego2021AccSpe; @Afkhami2014MutEff;
@Araujo2014ImpBio; @Godsoe2017IntBio; @Godsoe2012HowSpe; @Gotelli2010MacSig;
@Wisz2013RolBio]. Some researchers argue that occurrence data can also capture
real-time interactions [see @Roy2016FocPla; @Ryan2018RolCit], and, because of that,
it would not be necessary to include ecological interaction dynamics in
macroecological models. On the other hand, many mechanistic simulation models in
ecology have considered the effect of competition and facilitation in range
shifts. For example, Gotelli _et al._ [-@Gotelli2010MacSig] demonstrate how
conspecific attraction might be the main factor driving the distribution of
migratory birds; Afkhami _et al._ [-@Afkhami2014MutEff] explores how mutualistic
fungal endophytes are responsible or expanding the range of native grass; many
other examples are discussed in Wisz _et al._ [-@Wisz2013RolBio]. Although
interactions across trophic levels are demonstrated to determine species range
[@Wisz2013RolBio], the use of these interactions in mechanistic simulation
models in macroecology remains insufficient [as discussed in @Cabral2017MecSim].  

A significant challenge in this debate is the quality and quantity of species
distribution and ecological data [@Boakes2010DisVie; @Ronquillo2020AssSpa;
@Meyer2016MulBia] - a gap that can lead to erroneous conclusions in
macroecological research [@Hortal2008HisBia]. Amongst the geographical data
available are the range maps provided by the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Such maps consist of simplified polygons, often
created as alpha or convex hulls around known species locations, refined by
expert knowledge about the species [@IUCN2019MapSta].
These maps can be used in macroecological inferences in the lack of more precise
information [@Fourcade2016ComSpe; @Alhajeri2019HigCor], but it has been
recommended that they are used with caution since they tend to underestimate the
distribution of species that are not well-known [@Herkt2017MacCon] (especially
at fine scale resolutions; @Hurlbert2007SpeRic; @Hurlbert2005DisRan), do not
represent spatial variation in species occurrence and abundance
[@Dallas2020AbuNot], and can include inadequate areas within the estimated
range. Another source of species distribution information is the Global
Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF), which is an online repository of
georeferenced observational records that come from various sources, including
community science programs, museum collections, and long-term monitoring
schemes. A great source of bias in these datasets is the irregular sampling
effort, with more occurrences originating from attractive and accessible areas
and observation of charismatic species [@Alhajeri2019HigCor]. As for ecological
data, a complete assessment is difficult and is aggravated by biased sampling
methods, data aggregation [@Poisot2020EnvBia; @Hortal2015SevSho] and by the fact
that interactions are very often events that occur in a narrow window of time.
Nevertheless, we have witnessed an increase in the availability of biodiversity
data in the last decades, including those collected through community science
projects [@Callaghan2019ImpBig; @Pocock2015BioRec] and dedicated
databases, such as Mangal [@Poisot2016ManMak]. This provides an opportunity to
merge species distribution and ecological interaction data to improve our
predictions of where a species may be found across large spatial scales.  

It has been demonstrated that the agreement between range maps and point data
varies geographically [@Hurlbert2007SpeRic; @Hurlbert2005DisRan;
@Ficetola2014EvaRob]. Adding ecological interaction data to this comparison
might help to elucidate where these (dis)agreements are more likely to be true
and which dataset better represent the actual distribution of a species. In this
context, we elaborate a method that allows us to detect areas of potential
misestimation of species' distribution data (more precisely range maps) based on
interaction data. This method is based on the assumption that organisms cannot
persist in an area unless they are directly or indirectly connected to a primary
producer within their associated food web [@Power1992TopBot]. Thus, given that
herbivores are the main connection between plant resources (directly limited by
environmental conditions) and predators [@Dobson2009FooStr; @Scott2018RolHer],
the range of a predator (omnivore or carnivore) depends on the overlapping
ranges of its herbivore preys. If sections of a predator's range does not
overlap with at least one of its prey it will become disconnected from primary
producers, and therefore we would not expect the predator to occur in this area.  

This mismatch can be the result of different mechanisms, like the misestimation
of both the predator's and the preys' ranges [@Ladle2013MapSpe;
@Rondinini2006TraDif], taxonomic errors [@Isaac2004TaxInf; @Ladle2013MapSpe], or
the lack of information about trophic links (i.e., the lack of connection
between the ranges of a predator and a primary producer may be due a third
species we don't know is connected to both). Here in this proof of concept, we
investigate the disagreements between available data for species that compose a
well-known foodweb in the African continent, discuss the mechanisms that can
lead to this, and reinforce the importance of open geographically explicit
interaction data, and highlight the importance of accounting for uncertainty
when dealing with species distribution data.

# Methods

We indentified areas of uncertainty on the ranges of predators based on a simple
rule: we removed any part of a predator’s range that did not intersect with the
range of at least one prey herbivore species, which in turn is directly
connected to a primary producer (plants). To do that, we used a Serengeti food
web dataset [@Baskerville2011SpaGui] (which comprises carnivores, herbivores,
and plants from Tanzania) and its species ranges from IUCN. Then, we calculated
the difference in range sizes between the original IUCN ranges of predators and
those without the areas where they would be alone, based on species interaction
data. Finally, we added the GBIF occurrence points for the Serengeti species to
investigate whether the results would be different if we used another source of
distribution data. 
## Data 

We investigated the mismatch between savannah species ranges and interactions in
Africa (@fig:richness). These ecosystems host a range of
different species, including the well-characterized predator-prey dynamics
between iconic predators (e.g., lions, hyenas, and leopards) and large herbivores
(e.g., antelopes, wildebeests, and zebras), as well as a range of herbivorous and
carnivorous small mammals. The Serengeti ecosystem has been extensively studied
and its food web is one of the most complete we have to date, including primary
producers identified to the species level. Here we focus on six groups of
herbivores and carnivores from the Serengeti Food Web Data Set
[@Baskerville2011SpaGui]. These species exhibit direct antagonistic
(predator-prey) interactions with one another and are commonly found across
savannah ecosystems on the African continent [@McNaughton1992ProDis]. Plants in
the network were included indirectly in our analyses as we do not expect the
primary producers to significantly influence the range of herbivores for several
reasons. Firstly, many savannah plants are functionally similar (i.e., grasses,
trees and shrubs) and cooccur across the same habitats [@Baskerville2011SpaGui].
Secondly, herbivores in the network are broadly generalists feeding on a wide
range of different plants across habitats. Indeed, out of 129 plants in our dataset,
herbivores (n = 23) had a mean out degree (mean number of preys) of around 22 (std = 17.5).
There is also an absence of global range maps for many plant species
[@Daru2020GreToo], which prevents their direct inclusion in our analysis. Therefore, we
assume that plants consumed by herbivores are present across their ranges, and
as such the ranges of herbivores are not expected to be significantly
constrained by the availability of food plants.  

From the wider ecological network presented in Baskerville
[-@Baskerville2011SpaGui], we sampled interaction data for herbivores and
carnivores. This subnetwork contained 32 taxa (23 herbivores and 9 carnivores)
and 84 interactions and had a connectance of 0.08. Although self-loops are
informative, we removed these interactions to allow for the original IUCN
ranges of predators with cannibalistic interactions to be adjusted. We treated 
this overall network as a metaweb since it *should* contain all potential species
interactions between mammalian taxa occurring across savannah
ecosystems such as the Serengeti.  

We compiled IUCN range maps for the 32 species included in the metaweb from the
Spatial Data Download portal
(www.iucnredlist.org/resources/spatial-data-download), which we rasterized at a
0.5 degrees resolution (~50 km at the equator). We restricted the rasters to a
spatial extent comprised between latitudes 35°S and 40°N and longitudes 20°W and
55°E. We then combined interaction data from the metaweb and cooccurrence data
generated from species ranges to create networks for each raster pixel. This
generated a total of 11,308 pixel-level networks. These networks describe
potential predation, not actual interactions: the former is derived information
from the metaweb, and the latter is contingent on the presence of herbivores. 

## Range overlap measurement 

We calculated the geographical overlap, i.e. the extent to which interacting
predator and prey species co-occurred across their ranges, as 
$a/(a + c)$, where $a$ is the number of pixels where predator and prey cooccur
and $c$ is the number of pixels where only the focal species occur. This index
of geographical overlap can be calculated with prey or predators as the focal
species. Values vary between 0 and 1, with values closer to 1 indicating that
there is a large overlap in the ranges of the two species and values closer to 0
indicating low cooccurrence across their ranges. For each predator species, we
calculated its generality to understand whether the level of trophic
specialization (i.e., number of prey items per predator) affects the extent to
which the ranges of the species were altered. One would assume that predators
with a greater number of prey taxa (i.e., a higher generality) are less likely
to have significant changes in their range as it is more likely that at least
one prey species is present across most of their range.   

## Validation

For each species in the dataset we collated point observation data from GBIF
(www.gbif.org). We used the GBIF download API to retrieve all species
occurrences on November 22nd 2022 [@GBIF.org2022GbiOcc]. We restricted our query
to the data with spatial coordinates and which were inside the spatial extent of
our rasters. We did not use continental or date filters to retrieve as much data
as possible. However, a few observations were localized in the ocean near
latitude 0° and longitude 0°. We assumed these were errors and removed all
observations falling in the extent between latitudes 2°S and 2°N and longitudes
2°W and 2°E to keep only mainland sites.

We then converted the occurrence data into raster format by determining which
pixels had a least one GBIF occurrence. This allowed us to remove the effect of
repeated sampling in some locations. These data were used to validate the range
adjustments made based on species interactions (see beginning of Methods
section). To do so, we calculated the proportion of GBIF presence pixels
occurring within both the original IUCN species range and the adjusted one. We
then compared these proportions for the predators to verify if the range
adjustments removed locations with GBIF observations, hence likely true
habitats.

## Software

We performed all analyses using _Julia_ v1.7.2 [@Bezanson2017JulFre]. We used
the packages `SimpleSDMLayers.jl`  [@Dansereau2021SimJl] to manipulate the
raster layers, `EcologicalNetworks.jl` [@Poisot2019EcoJl] to construct and
manipulate the interaction networks, and `GBIF.jl` [@Dansereau2021SimJl] to
reconcile species names with the GBIF backbone taxonomy
[@GBIFSecretariat2021GbiBac]. We also used _GDAL_
[@GDAL/OGRcontributors2021GdaOgr] to rasterize the IUCN range maps (initially
available as shapefiles from the Spatial Data Download portal). All the scripts
required to reproduce the analyses are available at
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6842861.

# Results

Mammal species found in the Serengeti food web are widespread in Africa,
especially in grasslands and savannahs (first panel of @fig:richness). However,
most local networks (83.2%) built using the original IUCN range maps had at
least one mammal species without a path to a primary producer (second panel of
@fig:richness). On average, local food webs had almost the third of their mammal
species (mean = 30.5%, median = 14.3%) disconnected from basal species. In
addition, many networks (16.6%) only had disconnected mammals; these networks
however all had a very low number of mammal species, specifically between 1 and
4 (from a total of 32). As expected, the proportion of carnivores with a path to a
primary producer was conditional on the total number of mammal species in each local
network (third panel of @fig:richness).  

![(a) Spatial distribution of species richness according to the original IUCN
range maps of all 32 mammal species of the Serengeti food web. (b) Proportion of
mammal species remaining in each local network (i.e., each pixel) after removing
all species without a path to a primary producer. (c) Proportion of mammal
species remaining in each local network as a function of the number of species
given by the original IUCN range
maps.](figures/richness_prop_removed.png){#fig:richness}

## Specialized predators lose more range

![Negative relationship between the out degree of predator species and their
relative range loss. More specialized predators lose a higher proportion of
their ranges due to mismatches with the ranges of their
preys.](figures/rel_loss-outdegree-species.png){#fig:degree}

Predators with fewer prey lose more range with our method ([@fig:degree]). For
instance, both *Leptailurus serval* and *Canis mesomelas* have only one prey in
the Serengeti food web ([@tbl:everyone]), each of them with a very small range
compared to those of their predator. This discrepancy between range sizes
promotes significant range loss. On the other hand, predators of the genus
*Panthera* are some of the most connected species, and they also lose the least
proportion of their ranges. This mismatch between predators and preys can also
be a result of taxonomic disagreement between the geographical and ecological
data. Although *Canis aureus* has the same number of prey as *Caracal caracal*,
none of the prey taxa of the former occurs inside its original range
([@tbl:everyone]), which results in complete range loss. 

![Geographical similarity between the original IUCN range maps of predators
and preys. Dots represent predator-prey pairs, with different symbols
corresponding to different predators. For a given pair of species, the number
$c$ of pixels where the focal species is present but not the other and the number $a$ of pixels
where the predator and prey cooccur, were calculated.
Geographic similarities were given by $a/(a+c)$, with the predator being the
focal species in the predator to prey similarity (x-axis), while the prey is
the focal one in the prey to predator similarity (y-axis). One of the
predators, *Canis aureus*, is not represented in the image because it is an
extreme case (where all its range is suppressed by the absence of preys) and it
would make the interpretation of the data more
difficult.](figures/beta-div_pred-species.png){#fig:geo_diss} 

There was a high variation in the overlap of predator and prey ranges
(@fig:geo_diss). The high density of points on the left-hand side of @fig:geo_diss
indicates that most preys have small ranges in comparison to those of the set of
carnivores in the networks, resulting in either low overlap between both ranges
(bottom) or high overlap of ranges because much of that of the prey is within
predators' range (top). The top-right side of the plot encompasses situations where
the ranges of both predator and prey are similar and overlapping, while the 
bottom-right part of the plot represents a situation where the range of the predator
is smaller than that of its prey and much of it occurs within the preys' range.
For example, *Panthera
pardus* had many preys occurring inside its range, with highly variable levels of overlap
([@tbl:everyone]). In general, species exhibited more consistent values of
prey-predator overlap, than predator-prey overlap – indicated by the spread of
points along the x-axis, yet more restricted variation on the y-axis
(@fig:geo_diss). There was also no overall relationship between the two metrics,
or for any predator species.

: List of species analysed, their out and in degrees, total original range size
(in pixels), and proportion of their ranges occupied by their preys and predators
(values between 0 and 1). Species are sorted according to the groups identified
by @Baskerville2011SpaGui. Notice how some species are isolated in the network
(*Loxodonta africana*) and how *Canis aureus*'s range does not overlap with any of
its preys. {#tbl:everyone}

\input{tables/table_ranges.md}

## Validation with GBIF occurrences

The proportion of GBIF pixels (pixels with at least one GBIF occurrence) falling
within the IUCN ranges varied from low to high depending on the species
([@fig:gbif], left). The lowest proportions occurred for species with small
ranges. Amongst herbivores, *Rhabdomys pumilio* has a proportion of 22.6% of its
presence pixels within its IUCN range, while predators have this proportion
above 55% (such as *Lycaon pictus*, with 55.1%, and *Canis aureus*, with 56.2%).
Nevertheless, some species with smaller ranges showed high data overlap (such as
*Canis mesomelas*, with 94.9%, and many herbivores). Overall, predators and
preys displayed similar overlap variations, and species with median and large
ranges had higher proportions of occurrences falling into their IUCN range.  

The proportion of GBIF pixels in revised ranges can only be equal to or lower
than that of the original ranges, as our analysis removes pixels from the
original range and does not add new ones. Rather, the absence of a difference
between the two types of ranges indicates that no pixels with GBIF observations,
hence likely true habitats, were removed by our analysis. Here this proportion
was mostly similar to that of the original IUCN ranges for most predator species
([@fig:gbif, right]). Two species showed no difference in proportion while four
species showed only small differences (*Crocuta crocuta* lost 1.3% of the
original data overlap; *Acinonyx jubatus* lost 1.9%; *Panthera pardus* lost
8.8%; and *Caracal caracal* lost 12.3%).
On the other hand, three species, *Canis aureus*, *Canis mesomelas*, and
*Leptailurus serval* showed very high differences, with overlaps lowered by
100%, 57.4%, and 100% respectively. These last two species are also the only
predators with a single prey in our metaweb. *Canis aureus* has four preys, but
it has one of the smallest ranges in IUCN, which is not covered by any of its
preys. This result reinforces the concern raised in the literature on the use of
IUCN range maps for species that are not well known [@Herkt2017MacCon],
demonstrating how small range species are likely to have their distribution
underestimated in the IUCN database. Additionally, the fact that _Canis aureus_
had such a conspicuous discrepancy between the original and fitted IUCN range
maps, and between GBIF and IUCN data, may indicate a taxonomic incongruency
between the three databases used here, which we explore in the Discussion section. Our results
delineate how a mismatch between GBIF and IUCN databases differ greatly with
small changes in herbivore species ranges, and it is somewhat positively related
to range size for predator species. Moreover, we show that accounting for
interactions does not necessarily aggravates this dissimilarity, but it is
relevant for species about which we have little ecological information or for specialists groups.  

![Left panel: Distribution of the proportion of GBIF pixels (pixels with at
least one occurrence in GBIF) falling into the IUCN range for different range
sizes. Right panel: Differences between the proportion of GBIF pixels falling
into the IUCN and the fitted ranges for every predator species. Arrows go from
the proportion inside the original range to the proportion inside the revised
range, which can only be equal or lower. Overlapping markers indicate no
difference between the types of layers. Species markers are the same on both
figures, with predators presented in distinct colored markers and all herbivores
grouped in a single grey marker. Pixels represent a resolution of 0.5 degrees.](figures/gbif_panels.png){#fig:gbif}

# Discussion

Here we identify areas of data mismatch between species range maps by using
ecological interaction data (predator-prey interactions within food webs). Our
results did show a significant mismatch in the IUCN range
areas of specialized and generalist predatory organisms and their prey, which
highlights the importance of accounting for species
interactions when estimating the range of a species. Although this type of data
mismatch can result of actual ecological processes, outdated occurrence data,
taxonomic errors and more, we argue that, here, they rather indicate a lack of
interaction sampling data.

The case of the golden jackal (*Canis aureus*) is a good illustration of how the
taxonomic, geographical and ecological data can be used to validate one another.
The jackal is a widespread taxon in northern Africa, Europe, and Australasia,
generally well adapted to local conditions due to its largely varied diet
[@Tsunoda2020VarTro; @Krofel2021ResTax]. Because of that, we expected that
the *Canis* species in our dataset would be the ones losing the least amount of
range, with a higher value of the proportion of GBIF pixels within their IUCN
range maps. However, the taxonomy of this group is a matter of intense
discussion, as molecular and morphological data seem to disagree in the
clustering of species and subspecies [@Krofel2021ResTax; @Stoyanov2020CraVar].
This debate probably influenced our results: with originally only 56.2% of the
GBIF pixels of the golden jackal overlapping with its IUCN data,
we suspect that many of the GBIF occurrences refer to other *Canis* species, and
that its taxonomic identification in the network database is probably outdated.
This led to a complete exclusion of *Canis aureus* from its original range in our
analysis, despite the fact that this species has four documented preys in our
metaweb.

## Geographical mismatch and data availability

The lack of superposition between IUCN range maps and GBIF occurrences in our
results suggests that we certainly miss geographical information about the
distribution of either the prey or the predator. On the other hand, if both GBIF
and IUCN occurrences tended to superpose and the species was still locally removed,
this indicates that we don't have information about all its interactions (e.g.,
predators may be feeding on different species than the ones in our dataset
outside the Serengeti ecosystem). This rationale can be illustrated with three types of mismatches identified in our results. 

First, _Panthera leo_ was one of the species with no difference between ranges before and after our analysis, but 40.7% of the GBIF occurrences for this
species fell outside its IUCN range (@fig:gbif). In this particular case, the
IUCN maps seem to agree with species interaction data. However, the disagreement
between the IUCN and the GBIF databases is concerning and suggests that the IUCN
maps might underestimate the lion's distribution. Notwithstanding, as historical
datasets are common on GBIF, some of the records might correspond to locally
extinct populations. In our case, most of the data were from the last 20 years,
but _Nanger granti_, a herbivore linked to 6 predators, had most of its records
dated from the 1970's. Although this species is connected to many predators, its
impact is very low, as its original IUCN range corresponds to only 2% of all
occupied pixels.  

On the other hand, _Leptailurus serval_ and _Canis mesomelas_ are two of the
three species that have the higher proportion of mismatched range due to the
lack of paths to a herbivore, but are also some of the species with the higher
proportion of GBIF occurrences inside IUCN range maps (@fig:gbif). This
indicates that the information we are missing for these two species is related
to either an additional interaction or to the presence of interacting species.
To illustrate that, we mapped the GBIF data for the prey of _Leptailurus
serval_, with a mobility buffer around each point ([@fig:serval]). When
considering GBIF data, approximately 42% of the prey's occurrences are within
the portion of the predator's range that was divergent from its original IUCN
data. With the buffer area, this corresponds to 15% of the mismatched area. By
adding GBIF information for the prey, we could therefore reduce the discrepancy
of the range (or information) for the predator by 15% since its distribution is
conditional on the occurrence of its preys. In other words, the range mismatch
was exagerated because we were missing information on the presence of an
interacting species (i.e., this also indicates that there is a mismatch - or complementarity - between the IUCN and GBIF data for their prey).  

![Mismatch between serval's range loss and GBIF occurrence of its prey. The
left panel shows the reduction of serval's range when we consider the IUCN data
on its prey. On the right panel, we added GBIF data on both serval and its prey,
with a buffer for the prey to account for species mobility.](figures/serval_mismatch_combined.png){#fig:serval}

Finally, the extreme case of _Canis aureus_ illustrates a lack of both
geographical and ecological information: only half of its GBIF presence pixels
and none of its preys occur inside its IUCN range. We believe, therefore, that
the validation of species distribution based on ecological interaction is a
relevant method that can further fill in information gaps. Nevertheless, it is
imperative that more geographically explicit data about ecological networks and
interactions become available. This would help clarify when cooccurrences can be
translated into interactions [@Windsor2022UsiEco] and help the development of more advanced
validation methods for occurrence data.  


## Next steps

Here we demonstrated how we can detect uncertainty in species distribution data
using ecological interactions. Knowing where questionable occurrence data are can
be crucial in ecological modelling [@Hortal2008UncMea; @Ladle2013MapSpe], and
accounting for these errors can improve model outputs by diminishing the error
propagation [@Draper1995AssPro]. For instance, we believe our method is a way to
account for ecological interactions in habitat suitability models without making
the models more complex, but by making sure (not assuming) that the input data -
the species occurrence - actually accounts for ecological interactions. It is
important to notice, however, that the quality and usefulness of this method are
highly correlated with the amount and quality of data available about species'
occurrences **and** interactions. With this paper, we hope to add to the
collective effort to decode the encrypted message that is the occurrence of a
species in space and time. A promising avenue that adds to our method is the
prediction of networks and interactions in large scales [@Strydom2021RoaPre; @Windsor2022UsiEco],
for they can add valuable information about ecological interactions where they
are missing. Additionally, in order to achieve a robust modelling framework
towards actual species distribution models we should invest in efforts to
collect and combine open data on species occurrence and interactions
[@Windsor2022UsiEco], especially because we may be losing ecological
interactions at least as fast as we are losing species
[@Valiente-Banuet2015SpeLos].  


# Acknowledgements

We acknowledge that this study was conducted on land within the traditional
unceded territory of the Saint Lawrence Iroquoian, Anishinabewaki, Mohawk,
Huron-Wendat, and Omàmiwininiwak nations. We thank the editor and reviewers for
their thoughtful comments, which considerably improved this manuscript.

# References
