Dear Editors,

As we lose species at a fast pace, we need the data that we already have to be
accurate, as well as direct our efforts to data that are missing. In this
context, this group of authors have a common concern: how to better integrate
occurrence and interaction data to better inform conservation efforts and
ecological inquiry? We decided to start by investigating how well range maps can
inform us about species distribution if we consider the information we have
about their interactions. In this paper, entitled "Mismatch between IUCN range
maps and species interactions data illustrated using the Serengeti food web", we
use the Serengeti food-web to refine distribution maps by excluding areas where
a predator should not occur because of lack of interactions. Furthermore, we use
GBIF occurrences to guide us in the discussion on whether we are missing
occurrence or interaction data. We believe this approach brings a new
perspective to this debate, and can have multiple applications - from
conservation to species distribution models.

Because such discussion embeds multiple disciplines, we believe Ecography is a
great outlet for this paper. Our results and discussion are of interest of
researchers in conservation, ecological modelling, ecological networks and open
data. Within this framework, we address controversies related to how species
distribution models deal with ecological interactions. Our results suggest that
it is important to consider ecological networks at least in the validation of
the data to be used in these models. 

Our team of co-authors is a mix of researchers interested in macroecology of
networks and local processes that affect interactions. This combination of
backgrounds was crucial for the development of this manuscript, as we brought
different perspectives and skills to build a complex discussion. This manuscript
builds on previous research as it is based on the extensive debate about the
influence of ecological interactions on species range. However, here we chose to
follow a path that questions the data that we use to test these hypotheses
rather than the models and processes themselves.

We have no conflicts of interest to disclose. 

Thank you for your consideration of this manuscript. 
Sincerely,
Gracielle Higino
